I got started in martial arts when I was
about six or seven years old we're
living on Guam at the time my dad was an
Air Force and think my parents thought I
need to be toughened up a bit so they
enrolled me in judo and I did that for a
couple years we moved back to the states
I kind of dropped out of it I got into
karate for a year and year after that I
got into Bujinkan Budo taijutsu which
I've been doing for 27 years now what we
do is called Bujinkan Budo taijutsu
Budokan is a name of the actual
organization that hodgson me since I
created in the 70s to actually oversee
the martial art judo is the idea of the
art of war the way of war and taijutsu
is basically the art of using a body so
Budo taijutsu is the art of using the
body for the purpose of war and then
Bujinkan Budo taijutsu is the idea of
its this is the Bujinkan sway of using
your body for warfare Budo taijutsu is
derived from nine different martial arts
each of those martial arts have their
own traditions their own style of doing
things
cuckoo Shenmue for example is known
primarily as a battlefield art it uses
armor it uses heavy weapons very very
hardcore very much you know stock and
kill the enemies on the battlefield sort
of mentality some of the other schools
that are more ninjutsu based like toget
Arouca Maga adiru things like that are
much more clandestine based the idea
being not to engage your enemy but more
to accomplish the mission so a lot of
the combat techniques and these more
ninjutsu based arts are more about
engaging in in escaping as opposed to
trying to kill your enemy
asuma-sensei is the current grandmaster
and he inherited the martial arts that
comprised Bujinkan Budo taijutsu he
inherited those from Takamatsu sensei
and talked about two sensei inherited
those from a couple of different
teachers and turn and some of these arts
to go back hundreds and hundreds of
years
what makes Rizzo so authentic in how we
do the art is that we try to do things
the way that they're taught in Japan in
a sense of preserving the different ruja
the different schools that make up
Bujinkan Budo taijutsu we also try to
make sure that students understand what
the whole of Bujinkan Budo taijutsu is
actually comprised of in terms of combat
styles and philosophy and mentality
students start training with weapons in
our art from the very very beginning
these are not the Okinawan weapons that
people are familiar with in terms of cry
we use more traditional japanese-style
weapons which would be the katana the
spear knife weighted chains on some more
exotic weapons like the shuriken or
throwing stars and some specialized
ninjutsu weapons as well when people
first come to our school they have this
idea of ninjas that they've gotten from
the media and from movies and quite
honestly a lot of that is perpetuated by
the ninja themselves about history so
that people would be scared of them a
lot of the movie depictions of them are
sort of derived from these legends which
makes them out to be very ruthless
assassin types the reality is that ninja
were specialists and warfare in the same
way that Navy SEALs and special ops
groups are specialists in what they do
so there are things that in irregular
warfare that really the samurai weren't
trained to do or they may be found
distasteful to do or they just didn't
have the manpower to do in which case
ninja were used for those purpose the
philosophy of Budo taijutsu I think is
really very pragmatic it's very
practical there's no such thing as
cheating there's no such thing as a fair
fight every fight should be unfair in
your favor the idea is that you want to
be able to go home at the end of the day
to your family that's the most important
thing if you're walking with your family
you want to be able to keep them safe
it's not about being able to get in a
fair fight with a person with a mugger
trying to hurt your family so the
problems sometimes can arise in martial
arts that if you always train to fight
fairly when the time comes to cheat and
not fight fairly sometimes people have
trouble making that switch because a way
that you train is the way that you fight
so if you fight fairly when you train
you tend to fight fairly when you're not
training for us there's a definite idea
of thinking outside the box put the Sun
in your opponent's eyes spilled beer on
the floor and make them slip on it no
it's going to bars to let them and
they're not looking anything and
everything is is okay a traditional
martial arts I think have a depth of
spirituality that comes from actually
trying to understand the relationship
between the practitioner in the world so
for example within Budo taijutsu there's
the idea that I have to understand when
to kill somebody and when not to kill
somebody what am I willing to do in
order to keep myself safe am I willing
to main people hurt people somebody has
a gun somebody has a knife if somebody's
threatening maybe they'll see a weapon
but they're threatening to blow
themselves up you know what actions do I
take and how far am I willing to go our
purposes in terms of teaching in New
York and living in New York we try to
make sure that students understand a
pragmatic side of being able to actually
apply these arts in an everyday sense
into modern society we don't live in
16th century Japan so being able to
understand what those lessons from 16th
century Japan actually mean in 21st
century New York City is very very
important